.TH afclient.conf 5 "apf 0.8.4" Jeremian
.SH NAME
afclient.conf \- Configuration File for afclient
.SH INTRODUCTION
.B Afclient
supports several mechanisms to supply configuration and run-time parameters: command line options,
.B afclient.conf
and hard-coded defaults. When the same information is supplied in more than one way, the highest precedence mechanism is used. When configuration file is used (option:
.IR "-f FILE")
command line options like
.IR --reverseudp ,
.IR --udpmode ,
.IR --remoteadmin ,
.IR --load ,
.I --Load
and
.I --pass
are ignored. Options from configuration file are taken before values from command line (with the exception of
.IR --keyfile ,
.IR --storefile ,
.IR --dateformat ,
.IR --ignorepkeys
and the options connected with auto-reconnect support). When something is not declared, hard-coded values are used.

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B Afclient
uses configuration file, which name is supplied by the
.I -f FILE
option. The
.B afclient.conf
file is the set of command-line like options, which can be written in any order.

.SH "OPTIONS"

.B servername NAME
  name of the host, where
.I afserver
is running

.B manageport PORT
  manage port number - server must be listening on it (default: 50126)

.B hostname NAME
  the name of this host/remote host - the final destination of the packets (default: the name returned by hostname function)

.B portnum PORT
  the port we are forwarding connection to

.B localname NAME
  local machine name for connection with afserver (used to bind socket to different interfaces)

.B localport NAME
  local port name for connection with afserver (used to bind socket to different addressees)

.B localdesname NAME
  local machine name for connections with destination application (used to bind socket to different interfaces)

.B id STRING
  sends the id string to afserver

.B pass PASSWORD
  set the password used for client identification (default: no password)

.B ignorepkeys
  ignore invalid server's public keys

.B keyfile FILE
  the name of the file with RSA key (default: client.rsa)

.B cerfile FILE
  the name of the file with certificate (default: no certificate used)

.B storefile FILE
  the name of the file with stored public keys (default: known_hosts)

.B dateformat FORMAT
  format of the date printed in logs (see 'man strftime' for details) (default: %d.%m.%Y %H:%M:%S). Format string is trimmed. In order to include white characters into format string, use dots to mark beginning and end of the text. If the dot is first or last character, it's removed. Only one character from the beginning and one from the end can be removed.

.B keep-alive N
  send keepalive packets every N seconds (default: not send keepalive packets)

.B ar-start
  enable auto-reconnection when afserver is not reachable on start (default: disabled)

.B ar-quit
  enable auto-reconnection after normal afserver quit (default: disabled)

.B noar
  disable auto-reconnection after premature afserver quit (default: enabled)

.B ar-tries N
  try N times to reconnect (default: unlimited)

.B ar-delay N
  wait N seconds between reconnect tries (default: 5)

.B udpmode
  udp mode - client will use udp protocol to communicate with the hostname:portnum

.B reverseudp
  reverse udp forwarding. Udp packets will be forwarded from hostname:portnum to the server name:manageport

.B remoteadmin
  remote administration mode. (using '-p PORT' will force afclient to use port rather than stdin-stdout)

.B log LOGCMD
  log choosen information to file/socket

.B ipv4
  use ipv4 only

.B ipv6
  use ipv6 only

.B load FILE
  load a module for user's packets filtering

.B Load FILE
  load a module for service's packets filtering

.SH "SEE ALSO"

.BR afserver.conf (5),
.BR afclient (1),
.BR afserver (1)

.SH AUTHOR

Jeremian <jeremian [at] poczta.fm>

.SH CONTRIBUTIONS

Alex Dyatlov <alex [at] gray-world.net>, Simon <scastro [at] entreelibre.com>, Ilia Perevezentsev <iliaper [at] mail.ru>, Marco Solari <marco.solari [at] koinesistemi.it>, and Joshua Judson Rosen <rozzin [at] geekspace.com>

.SH LICENSE

Active Port Forwarder is distributed under the terms of the GNU General Public License v2.0 and is copyright (C) 2003-2007 jeremian <jeremian [at] poczta.fm>. See the file COPYING for details.
