.TH afserver.conf 5 "apf 0.7" Jeremian
.SH NAME
afserver.conf \- Configuration File for afserver
.SH INTRODUCTION
.B Afserver
supports several mechanisms to supply configuration and run-time parameters: command line options,
.B afserver.conf
and hard-coded defaults. When the same information is supplied in more than one way, the highest precedence mechanism is used. When configuration file is used (option:
.IR "-f FILE")
command line options like
.IR --hostname ,
.IR --listenport ,
.I --manageport
and
.I --pass
are ignored. Options from configuration file are taken before values from command line. When something is not declared, hard-coded values are used.

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B Afserver
uses configuration file, which name is supplied by the
.I -f FILE
option. The
.B afserver.conf
file is composed of two sections which have to be in fixed order. In first section global values like certificates, keys and logging options are set. The second section starts with first
.B realm
command and includes options describing specific realms. There may be several
.B realm
commands.

.SH "GLOBAL OPTIONS"

.B certificate FILE
  the name of the file with certificate (default: cacert.pem)

.B key FILE
  the name of the file with RSA key (default: server.rsa)

.B log LOGCMD
  log choosen information to file/socket

.B dateformat FORMAT
  format of the date printed in logs (see 'man strftime' for details) (default: %d.%m.%Y %H:%M:%S). Format string is trimmed. In order to include white characters into format string, use dots to mark beginning and end of the text. If the dot is first or last character, it's removed. Only one character from the beginning and one from the end can be removed.

.SH "REALM OPTIONS"

.B realm [NAME]
  starts configuration of the next realm. Name of the realm can be specified using this option.

.B hostname NAME
  used when creating listening sockets (default: '')

.B listen PORT
  listening port number - users connect to it (required at least one)

.B manage PORT
  manage port number - afclient connects to it (required at least one)

.B pass PASSWORD
  password used for client identification (default: no password)

.B users N
  the amount of users allowed to use this server (default: 5)
  
.B timeout N
  the timeout value for the client's connection (default: 5)
  
.B clients N
  the number of allowed clients to use this server (default: 1)
  
.B raclients N
  the number of allowed clients in remote administration mode to use this server (default: 1)
  
.B usrpcli N
  the number of allowed users per client (default: $users)
  
.B climode N
  strategy used to connect users with clients (default: 1)
  Available strategies:
    1. fill first client before go to next
    
.B proto TYPE
  type of server (tcp|udp) - what protocol it will be operating for (default: tcp)

.B nossl
  ssl is not used to transfer data (but it's still used to establish a connection) (default: ssl is used)
  
.B nozlib
  zlib is not used to compress data (default: zlib is used)
  
.B baseport
  listenports are temporary and differ for each client

.B audit
  additional information about connections are logged
  
.B dnslookups
  try to obtain dns names of the computers rather than their numeric IP
  
.B ipv4
  use ipv4 only
  
.B ipv6
  use ipv6 only

.B enableproxy
  enable http proxy mode

.SH "SEE ALSO"

.BR afclient (1),
.BR afserver (1)

.SH AUTHOR

Jeremian <jeremian [at] poczta.fm>

.SH CONTRIBUTIONS

Alex Dyatlov <alex [at] gray-world.net>, Simon <scastro [at] entreelibre.com>, Ilia Perevezentsev <iliaper [at] mail.ru> and Marco Solari <marco.solari [at] koinesistemi.it>

.SH LICENSE

Active Port Forwarder is distributed under the terms of the GNU General Public License v2.0 and is copyright (C) 2003,2004,2005 jeremian <jeremian [at] poczta.fm>. See the file COPYING for details.
